doc/Theming.md, before:

# Theming

You can override pretty much all the HTML generated by ng-admin, at different levels.

## Stylesheet

Ng-admin CSS is composed of styles from [sb-admin](http://ironsummitmedia.github.io/startbootstrap-sb-admin-2/), on top of [Bootstrap 3](http://getbootstrap.com/). By using your own CSS in addition to the ng-admin CSS, you can customize the look and feel of every displayed component. 

To ease styling, ng-admin adds custom classes for the entities and fields currently displayed, to allow a finer styling. For instance, the datagrid in the list view always uses a class named `ng-admin-entity-[entityName]`. In the datagrid also, each header in the table uses a class named `ng-admin-column-[fieldName]`, which should allow precise sizing of columns. 

Don't hesitate to inspect the generated source to look for the right CSS selector.

## Custom Classes

To ease theming, you can add a custom class to your fields in every view, using the `cssClasses()` method.

```js
myEntity.listView()
    .addField(new Field('title').cssClasses(['foo', 'bar']));
```

`cssClasses()` can optionally accept a function, to return a class depending on the current entry.

```js
myEntity.listView()
    .addField(new Field('title').cssClasses(function(entry) {
        if (entry.values.publishDate >= Date.now()) {
            return 'bg-success';
        }
    }));
```

## Customizing Directives Templates

Using Angular's [`$provide`](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/auto/service/$provide) service, and the ability to decorate another provider, you can customize the templates of all the directives used by ng-admin. Here is an example of customization of the 'text' input field customization:

```js
var app = angular.module('myApp', ['ng-admin']);

app.config(function(NgAdminConfigurationProvider, ..., $provide) {
        // Override textarea template
        $provide.decorator('maTextFieldDirective', ['$delegate', function ($delegate) {
            // You can modify directly the template
            $delegate[0].template = angular.element($delegate[0].template).addClass('MyClass')[0].outerHTML;

            // or use a templateURL (loaded from a file or a <script type="text/ng-template" id="string.html"></script> tag)
            $delegate[0].template = '';
            $delegate[0].templateUrl = 'string.html';

            return $delegate;
        }]);

        // ...
});
```

## Customizing The View Template For A Given Entity

For a given entity, each of the main views (`list`, `show`, `create`, `edit`, `delete`) can use a custom HTML template instead of the default one. Just pass it to the `template()` function on the view:

```js
var myTemplate = require('text!./path/to/list.html');
var myEntity = new Entity('foo_endpoint');
myEntity.listView().template(myTemplate);
// continue myEntity configuration
// ...
app.addEntity(myEntity);
```

## Customizing The View Templates For The Entire Application

You can use the `app.customTemplate()` method to customize the template of a given view across the entire application (for all entities). This method expects a function argument, which should return the template as a string.

```js
var myTemplate = require('text!./path/to/list.html');
app.customTemplate(function(viewName) {
    if (viewName === 'ListView') {
        return myTemplate;
    }
})
```

## Customizing Error Messages

You can use the `app.errorMessage()`, `entity.errorMessage()` or `view.errorMessage()` methods to customize the message displayed when an error occurred with the API. These methods expect a function argument with the response as parameter, which should return the message as a string.

```js
entity.errorMessage(function (response) {
    return 'Global error: ' + response.status + '(' + response.data + ')';
});
```

Commit message:

Allow overriding the main template
Closes #234

doc/Theming.md, after:

# Theming

You can override pretty much all the HTML generated by ng-admin, at different levels.

## Stylesheet

Ng-admin CSS is composed of styles from [sb-admin](http://ironsummitmedia.github.io/startbootstrap-sb-admin-2/), on top of [Bootstrap 3](http://getbootstrap.com/). By using your own CSS in addition to the ng-admin CSS, you can customize the look and feel of every displayed component. 

To ease styling, ng-admin adds custom classes for the entities and fields currently displayed, to allow a finer styling. For instance, the datagrid in the list view always uses a class named `ng-admin-entity-[entityName]`. In the datagrid also, each header in the table uses a class named `ng-admin-column-[fieldName]`, which should allow precise sizing of columns. 

Don't hesitate to inspect the generated source to look for the right CSS selector.

## Custom Classes

To ease theming, you can add a custom class to your fields in every view, using the `cssClasses()` method.

```js
myEntity.listView()
    .addField(new Field('title').cssClasses(['foo', 'bar']));
```

`cssClasses()` can optionally accept a function, to return a class depending on the current entry.

```js
myEntity.listView()
    .addField(new Field('title').cssClasses(function(entry) {
        if (entry.values.publishDate >= Date.now()) {
            return 'bg-success';
        }
    }));
```

## Customizing Directives Templates

Using Angular's [`$provide`](https://docs.angularjs.org/api/auto/service/$provide) service, and the ability to decorate another provider, you can customize the templates of all the directives used by ng-admin. Here is an example of customization of the 'text' input field customization:

```js
var app = angular.module('myApp', ['ng-admin']);

app.config(function(NgAdminConfigurationProvider, ..., $provide) {
        // Override textarea template
        $provide.decorator('maTextFieldDirective', ['$delegate', function ($delegate) {
            // You can modify directly the template
            $delegate[0].template = angular.element($delegate[0].template).addClass('MyClass')[0].outerHTML;

            // or use a templateURL (loaded from a file or a <script type="text/ng-template" id="string.html"></script> tag)
            $delegate[0].template = '';
            $delegate[0].templateUrl = 'string.html';

            return $delegate;
        }]);

        // ...
});
```

## Customizing The View Template For A Given Entity

For a given entity, each of the main views (`list`, `show`, `create`, `edit`, `delete`) can use a custom HTML template instead of the default one. Just pass it to the `template()` function on the view:

```js
var myTemplate = require('text!./path/to/list.html');
var myEntity = new Entity('foo_endpoint');
myEntity.listView().template(myTemplate);
// continue myEntity configuration
// ...
app.addEntity(myEntity);
```

## Customizing The View Templates For The Entire Application

You can use the `app.customTemplate()` method to customize the template of a given view across the entire application (for all entities). This method expects a function argument, which should return the template as a string.

```js
var myTemplate = require('text!./path/to/list.html');
app.customTemplate(function(viewName) {
    if (viewName === 'ListView') {
        return myTemplate;
    }
})
```

## Customizing the Application Layout

If, for any reason, you need to override the application layout (for instance to add authentication status on the top bar), use the `app.layout()` setter:

```js
var myLayout = require('text!./path/to/layout.html');
var app = new Application('My Application') 
app.layout(myLayout);
```

The original layout can be found in [src/javascripts/ng-admin/Main/view/layout.html](src/javascripts/ng-admin/Main/view/layout.html).

## Customizing Error Messages

You can use the `app.errorMessage()`, `entity.errorMessage()` or `view.errorMessage()` methods to customize the message displayed when an error occurred with the API. These methods expect a function argument with the response as parameter, which should return the message as a string.

```js
entity.errorMessage(function (response) {
    return 'Global error: ' + response.status + '(' + response.data + ')';
});
```
